The prophet Isaiah foretold
that “in the final part of the days”
people of all nations
would flock to Jehovah’s elevated place
of pure worship.
They would say,
“[Jehovah] will instruct us about his ways,
and we will walk in his paths.”
Well, how happy we are to see this prophecy
undergoing fulfillment right before our eyes.
The result is multicultural
and multilingual united worshippers
giving praise to Jehovah.
This morning we want
to share with you proof of this,
as we experienced on our recent branch visit.
It was truly a pleasure for Terry and me
to be teamed up with
Robert and Faith Luccioni
for the branch visit
to three countries in Asia
from March 29 through April 19, 2016.
Our first stop was in Japan.
The 214,000 publishers in Japan
are very active in the ministry.
With over 65,000 regular pioneers,
they maintain one of the highest ratios
of pioneers to publishers.
The branch facilities in Japan
are surrounded by beautiful gardens
and water features,
which certainly bring honor
to Jehovah’s name.
We also enjoyed a tour of the printery.
Their presses print magazines,
brochures, tracts, and books
for the entire Asia region.
When it comes to Bible printing,
they team up with the United States printery
to print all
of the New World Translation Bibles
for the whole world.
The bindery in Japan has produced
over 8,500,000 deluxe Bibles
in 45 languages since the release
of the revised New World Translation.
With the reduction in personnel
in the Bethel family,
a number of sisters are making adjustments
to new assignments,
which were formerly handled by brothers.
It was very commendable to note
how these sisters make
an excellent contribution to the work.
The Translation Department
cares for the Japanese language
and the Japanese Sign-Language translations.
On Monday, we enjoyed
a special noon meal with the family.
One truly special feature
was the song sung by the translators
and missionaries who joined
the branch visit from Bangladesh.
What a beautiful group
of loyal, hard-working brothers and sisters.
Along with the Luccionis,
we also enjoyed field service
with a local congregation.
Over the years, the brothers and sisters
in Japan have set
such a good example
in their zeal for Kingdom preaching.
They continue to find great joy
in their ministry.
On Saturday we enjoyed a special program
at the Ebina Assembly Hall.
The program was also streamed
to Kingdom Halls throughout Japan,
Bangladesh, and Mongolia.
The total attendance was 226,000.
Everyone enjoyed
a fine “interchange of encouragement”
from the program and the association.
Well, the time had come for us to move
from Japan to Mongolia.
Mongolia is landlocked
between Russia and China
and is one of the most sparsely
populated countries in the world.
The landscape of Mongolia
consists of rivers, streams,
towering mountains, and rolling grasslands.
Buddhism maintains a strong foothold
in Mongolia today.
Interestingly, it wasn’t until the 1990’s
that the good news began
to be preached in this land.
In fact, the first Mongolian publishers
were baptized in 1996.
There are now over 458 publishers
who are currently conducting
over 800 Bible studies.
The 15 members of the Bethel family
make up this remote translation office,
or RTO.
They are located in this five-story building.
On our visit, it was our pleasure
to meet Batzorigt and his wife.
They are both deaf
and learned the truth in the mid-’90’s
while attending college
in St. Petersburg, Russia.
After college they returned to Mongolia,
only to find
there were no publishers in the country,
so their baptism was held
at a convention in Russia.
They became the first native Mongolians
to serve in Mongolia.
Brother Batzorigt now serves
as a congregation elder
in Ulaanbaatar’s sign-language congregation.
It was very encouraging
to visit with Sister Narantuya,
who works with the Translation Department.
She related how she came
into the truth through her husband,
who also worked
in the Translation Department
before he passed away.
However, his translation work
did not begin there.
Brother Oyunbat was a doctor.
Prior to learning the truth,
he went to Poland alone
to make money for his family.
When he was there,
he met Jehovah’s Witnesses
and studied the Knowledge book.
He was so impressed with what he learned
that he wanted to share
the truth with his family.
But there was no Knowledge book
in Mongolian back then.
So he translated the book himself,
one chapter a week,
and sent it as a form of handwritten letters
to his family in Mongolia.
Our dear brother did this for his family
out of love for them.
As a result, his wife and children,
as well as a relative’s family,
came into the truth.
In December 1997, he returned to Mongolia
to help his family spiritually,
even though he had hoped to stay in Europe
until the next summer to get baptized.
He was finally baptized in May 1998.
And in 1999,
he officially became a translator,
and the Mongolian Knowledge book
was officially released in 2001.
Along with the Luccionis,
we visited Sister Tsetsegee,
who lives in a traditional Mongolian ger,
or yurt.
Sister Tsetsegee
has been paralyzed and bedridden
for 15 years because of tumors.
She recently learned the truth
and was baptized in July 2015,
but she cannot leave her yurt,
so she attends meetings regularly
on the phone
and makes well-prepared comments.
Because she is bedridden,
she does all she can
to informally witness to any visitors.
Twice a week, she conducts Bible studies
with her grandchildren
and at the same time
cares for her family worship.
Sadly, the time came for us to leave
this beautiful, happy family
whom we fell in love with.
From Mongolia, we traveled to Nepal
—a land of majestic mountains.
The majority of its 20 million inhabitants
are Hindus.
There is, however, a great diversity
in the ethnic origins of the people.
The truth began to be cultivated
in the 1970’s.
There are now 2,362 publishers.
The brothers and sisters
are working hard in the ministry,
conducting about 4,500 Bible studies.
This has resulted
in bringing in approximately
150 newly baptized ones each year.
After a short ride from the airport,
we arrived at the country office,
located in the heart of Kathmandu.
Thirty members of the Bethel family
live and work in six rented buildings.
While the buildings are
in the vicinity of each other,
it is not an efficient arrangement,
either work-wise or financially.
So it was thrilling for the family
to learn that just a week before our arrival,
they had closed on a purchase
of a five-story office building.
On Monday, Brother Luccioni and I
took the opportunity to visit the new site.
The lower floors
will comfortably accommodate
the Translation Department,
audio recording, the Service Department,
as well as the Bethel Office.
This then allows for enough space
for all the residence rooms
on the upper floors.
A key role for this country office
is the translation work.
Here at the meeting with the Translation
and Audio/Video departments,
it was so encouraging to see
their zeal for their work.
Meet Brother Hira Maharjan, who is deaf
and commutes to Bethel twice a week
to assist with sign-language translation.
During the earthquake last year,
his home where he lived with his family
was completely destroyed.
Following the earthquake, it was doubtful
if he could continue commuting to Bethel
and supporting the translation work.
How are such ones faring now?
A tremendous amount
of relief work was carried out
by the Disaster Relief Committee, or DRC.
This included building homes
for about 90 families,
as seen in the photos
of the buildings with the blue roofs.
As a result of the DRC construction,
Brother Hira now has a new home
and has resumed commuting
to Bethel twice a week,
working around his secular work schedule.
Despite the earthquake
and all the disruption that it brought,
the brothers and sisters never lost
their focus on the ministry
and the need to bring comfort
to their neighbors.
They just love talking
about the wonderful good news.
On Saturday, April 16,
brothers and sisters from Kathmandu
began filing into the city’s Academy Hall
for the special meeting
for the congregations.
In addition to the 13 congregations
that were invited to the venue,
30 congregations throughout Nepal
were tied in.
The total attendance was 3,137.
Indeed, all praise goes to Jehovah
for drawing the sheeplike ones to him.
Whether they live in Nepal,
Mongolia, Japan,
or any other part of the world,
Jehovah is not partial and he brings them
into his beautiful organization
that is truly united.
We are so thankful and proud
to be with his people.
Yes, people of all nations are flocking
to Jehovah’s mountain of true worship.
Of course, Jehovah deserves the credit
for elevating pure worship in this time.
Still, as fellow workers,
we are privileged to share in this work
—sharing in this work
with our brothers and sisters
from every part of the earth.
Ah, how marvelous it will be
when this entire globe is filled only
with pure worshippers of Jehovah!